The @Transactional annotation has several transactional parameters,
also called the transaction advice.
Let's talk about these.
The propagation parameter defines how transactions relate to each other.
The most common options are REQUIRED.
Code will always run in a transaction or it creates a new
transaction or reuses one if available.
This is the default.
REQUIRES_NEW.
Code will always run in a new transaction suspending the
current transaction if one exists.
NEVER.
This means a method shouldn't be run within a transaction.
The isolation level of a transaction defines how data within
transactions are available to other processes,
users, and systems.
READ_UNCOMMITTED.
This allows dirty reads,
which allows the transaction to read data written but not
yet committed by other transactions.
READ_COMMITTED.
This does not allow dirty reads.
REPEATABLE_READ.
If a row is read twice in the same transaction,
the result will always be the same.
SERIALIZABLE.
This performs all transactions in a sequence.
The different levels have different performance
characteristics in a multithreaded application.
There is also a default option that uses the transaction isolation
level provided by the underlying implementation.
A timeout represents a timeout for the operation wrapped by the transaction.
The transaction timeout defaults to the default timeout of the underlying
transaction system or to none if timeouts are not supported.
The readOnly flag.
You set this to true when transactions don't need to write back to the database.
The default for this is false.
Setting the flag to true allows the underlying
implementation to possibly optimize data access.
When using JPA, this flag is only a hint for the persistence provider,
and it will not necessarily cause failure of write access attempts.
Its behavior is vendor dependent.
The readOnly flag is only relevant inside of a transaction.
If an operation occurs outside of a transactional context,
the flag is simply ignored.
Now let's look at the rollback rules for a transaction.
By default, rollback happens for runtime unchecked exceptions only.
The checked exception does not trigger a rollback of the transaction.
There's the rollbackFor option.
This defines one or more exceptions that you want to trigger a rollback for.
So if you throw an exception or a subclass of it,
always use this parameter to tell Spring to roll back
transactions if a checked exception occurs.
RollbackForClassName.
This defines one or more exceptions that you want to trigger a rollback for.
You include the specific class name.
The rollbackForClassName attribute actually provides a little
more flexibility than the rollbackFor parameter.
noRollbackFor. This specifies the class name where rollback should not occur.